Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5501.2.
WE ARE ORBITING
THE PLANET LACTRA VII.
OUR MISSION IS TO DISCOVER
THE WHEREABOUTS OR FATE
OF A SIX-MEMBER SCIENCE CREW.
VOICE CONTACT
HAVING YIELDED NOTHING,
A LANDING PARTY BEAMED ABOARD
TO SEE IF THE DESERTED SHIP'S
LOG AND COMPUTERS
COULD GIVE US ANY INFORMATION.
IT IS NOW 32 MINUTES
SINCE OUR LAST CONTACT
WITH THE THREE MEMBERS
OF OUR CREW
ON THE PLANET SURFACE.
AS THE SENIOR OFFICER
ABOARD,
I, LIEUTENANT COMMANDER MARKEL,
HAVE MADE
THE FOLLOWING DECISION.
THE THREE REMAINING
CREW MEMBERS, MYSELF INCLUDED,
WILL BEAM DOWN
TO EFFECT A RESCUE.
IF, FOR ANY REASON,
WE DO NOT RETURN,
BE IT KNOWN THAT...
IT WAS AGAINST ALL ORDERS.
THE NEED WAS
APPARENTLY DESPERATE.
THE CAPTAIN OF A SHIP,
NO MATTER HIS RANK,
MUST FOLLOW THE BOOK.
A CAPABILITY, I'M AFRAID,
OUT OF THE REACH
OF MOST HUMANS.
YOU VULCANS ARE THE MOST
IMPOSSIBLE, UNIMAGINATIVE --
BONES, THAT'S NOT
HELPING THE SITUATION.
SORRY, JIM.
MR. SPOCK, WHAT CAN WE EXPECT
TO FIND ON LACTRA VII?
IT'S A CLASS-M PLANET,
GRAVITY, EARTH NORMAL,
ATMOSPHERE, EARTH NORMAL.
THERE IS NO PREVIOUS
INFORMATION AVAILABLE
EXCEPT THAT
WHICH THE SURVEY SHIP LOGGED
BEFORE HER CREW LEFT HER.
ACCORDING TO THEIR LOG,
THEY BEAMED DOWN
SIX WEEKS AGO.
FIVE WEEKS, THREE DAYS,
TWO HOURS, AND FOUR MINUTES,
TO BE EXACT, CAPTAIN.
CARELESS OF ME, MR. SPOCK.
PLANETARY LIFE FORMS?
IT CERTAINLY CAN
SUPPORT LIFE FORMS.
BUT I CANNOT SPECULATE ON
WHAT TYPE WITHOUT FURTHER DATA.
MR. AREX IS CONDUCTING
A SENSOR SCAN NOW.
IT WILL TAKE TOO LONG
TO DO A COMPREHENSIVE SCAN.
I WANT A LANDING PARTY
TO AT LEAST BEAM DOWN
TO THE LAST KNOWN COORDINATES
THE OTHER CREW USED.
JIM, IF THE OTHERS ARE LOST,
WHY TAKE THE RISK?
BECAUSE THEY MAY NOT BE DEAD.
WE HAVE TO FIND OUT.
IT'S STILL A RISK.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE, BONES.
GENTLEMEN, WE'LL TRAVEL LIGHT.
PHASERS, TRICORDERS,
COMMUNICATORS, AND MEDICAL KIT.
YOU HAVE THE COORDINATES
FROM THE OTHER SHIP, SCOTTY.
PUT US DOWN
IN THE SAME PLACE.
SIR, MR. AREX HAS LOCATED
A VARIETY OF LIFE FORMS
ON THE PLANET.
NO LARGE GROUPS
OR CITY CLUSTERS YET.
THEN WE'LL BEAM BACK UP.
LOGICAL, CAPTAIN.
Kirk: ENERGIZE, MR. SCOTT.
EVERYONE ALL RIGHT?
TEN YARDS THE OTHER WAY
AND WE'D BE BOILED ALIVE.
UNUSUAL THAT SUCH A LAKE
WOULD EXIST UNDER
THESE PLANETARY CONDITIONS.
UH, SPOCK?
Spock: MOST REMARKABLE.
Kirk: IT MAY BE ABLE
TO NAVIGATE ON LAND.
I KNOW IT CAN.
Kirk: PHASERS ON STUN!
[ROARING]
LET'S GET OUT OF HERE.
McCoy: NOT A VERY
WELCOME SIGHT, IS IT?
Kirk: I'LL SEE IF I CAN
PICK UP ANYTHING
ON MY COMMUNICATOR.
THIS IS CAPTAIN KIRK
OF THE U.S.S. ENTERPRISE,
CALLING THE CREW
OF THE ARIEL.
COME IN, PLEASE. COME IN.
[STATIC]
THEY'RE ANSWERING.
DID YOU GET A FIX
ON THAT, JIM?
YES. THAT WAY.
STRANGE YOU DIDN'T GET
A VOICE REPLY.
THERE COULD BE MANY REASONS
WHY WE DID NOT.
NEVER MIND COUNTING THEM.
[ROARING]
PHASERS ON STUN!
IT SEEMS TO GATHER STRENGTH
FROM OUR PHASERS,
IN MY OPINION.
CONCENTRATE ON THE UNDERSIDE
OF THE NECK.
-CAPTAIN?
-RIGHT HERE. YOU ALL RIGHT?
I AM UNDAMAGED.
WHERE IS DR. McCOY?
McCoy: [GROANING]
IT CAME FROM BACK THERE.
WE'LL GET YOU OUT, BONES!
IT WOULD APPEAR
A MORE LOGICAL SOLUTION
IS IN ORDER, CAPTAIN.
WE DON'T LIFT THE TAIL OFF,
WE DIG THE DOCTOR OUT.
McCoy: [SIGHS]
THANKS. THE -- THE AIR WAS
RUNNING OUT UNDER THERE.
-WERE YOU HURT?
-McCoy: NO. JUST SURPRISED.
IT ISN'T EVERY DAY
A DINOSAUR FALLS ON YOU.
THIS IS A PRETTY
STRANGE PLACE.
AGREED.
HOW MUCH DESERT
DO WE HAVE TO CROSS,
MR. SPOCK?
1.1 KILOMETERS, SIR.
WE'D BETTER PICK UP OUR PACE.
THERE'S NO PLACE
FOR COVER IF WE MEET
ANY OTHER CREATURES.
THE BEARING ON THE SIGNAL
WE HEARD IS THAT WAY.
Spock: CAPTAIN, THE BEAST,
DID IT SEEM
FAMILIAR TO YOU?
Kirk: I'VE SEEN SOMETHING
VERY LIKE IT ON CANOPUS III,
BUT THAT'S LIGHT-YEARS
FROM HERE.
STILL, THIS DESERT AREA
IS THE SAME AS ON CANOPUS.
YOU PROPOSE
THE SAME ENVIRONMENT
NECESSARILY PROMPTS
THE SAME EVOLUTION?
MY SHOES ARE FULL OF SAND.
DOCTOR, YOUR LACK
OF SCIENTIFIC INTEREST
IS AMAZING.
I'LL BE HAPPY TO DISCUSS THAT
WITH YOU, MR. SPOCK,
NEXT TIME YOU DROP IN
TO MY MEDICAL LAB.
OH, THIS SEEMS A LOT MORE
FRIENDLY THAN THE DESERT.
CAPTAIN, DOESN'T IT
STRIKE YOU STRANGE THAT TWO
SUCH DIFFERENT ECOLOGIES
COULD CO-EXIST SO CLOSELY?
I'VE SEEN STRANGER THINGS,
MR. SPOCK.
MERELY AN OBSERVATION,
CAPTAIN.
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
Scotty on radio:
ENTERPRISE. SCOTT HERE.
Kirk: ANY NEW INFORMATION,
SCOTTY?
THERE IS A LARGE CONCENTRATION
OF LIFE FORMS
98.5 KILOMETERS
NORTHEAST OF YOU.
APPARENTLY A CITY,
OR A CENTRAL GATHERING PLACE.
NOTHING ELSE YET.
NORTHEAST. THAT'S WHERE WE GET
THE SIGNAL FROM.
ALL RIGHT, SCOTTY,
KEEP SCANNING.
KIRK OUT.
I DON'T LIKE IT, JIM.
WHY ONLY ONE SHORT SIGNAL
AND NO MORE?
I DON'T KNOW.
BUT AT LEAST THEY'RE ALIVE.
APPARENTLY ALIVE.
WE CANNOT BE SURE.
Kirk: I CHOOSE
TO BELIEVE THEY ARE.
ALLOW ME TO TEST THE WATER
FIRST, DOCTOR.
GO AHEAD.
BUT IT LOOKS CLEAR ENOUGH.
CAPTAIN,
THE WATER IS TOO PURE.
IT TASTES JUST FINE.
NONETHELESS, IT IS TOO PURE.
IN OTHER WORDS,
IT'S TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
CORRECT, CAPTAIN.
AND A RAINFOREST THIS CLOSE
TO A DESERT IS ALSO ILLOGICAL.
IT IS MY THEORY THAT WHAT
WE HAVE SEEN SINCE WE LANDED
WAS MANUFACTURED,
NOT CREATED.
TERRAFORMING ISN'T NEW.
IT IMPLIES
INTELLIGENT LIFE FORMS.
YES, BUT TERRAFORMING
USUALLY FOLLOWS A PATTERN.
THIS SEEMS
LIKE RANDOM CHOICE.
UNLESS, OF COURSE, THE RANDOM
CHOICE IS THE PATTERN.
SPOCK, DO YOU EVER SAY
ANYTHING STRAIGHT OUT?
I THOUGHT I JUST DID, DOCTOR.
GENTLEMEN, PLEASE.
WE HAVE WORK TO DO.
Spock: THE DESPERATION OF
THE SCIENCE SHIP'S FIRST
LANDING PARTY IS NOW OBVIOUS.
-WE'RE STILL ALIVE, AREN'T WE?
-THAT'S TRUE.
HOWEVER, NOT EXACTLY SAFE.
[SHRIEKING]
PHASERS ON FULL STUN.
-THEY'RE USELESS!
-NO.
THEY'RE LIKE THE DRAGONS
ON MARAVEL.
THE STUN CHARGE
SHOULD GET THEM.
THAT'S STRANGE.
BY OBSERVATION ALONE,
IT APPEARS THEY HIT
AN INVISIBLE FORCE FIELD.
IF THAT'S TRUE, SPOCK, THEN...
WE'VE BEEN TRAVELING
FOR HOURS.
WHERE ARE THEY TAKING US?
TOWARDS THE NORTHWEST,
TOWARD THE CITY
SCOTTY REPORTED.
Spock: CAPTAIN, THERE IT IS.
Kirk: THAT MUST BE
5 SQUARE KILOMETERS.
IF THESE ARE THE BUILDERS,
IT IS AN ADMIRABLE FEAT.
McCoy: THEY DON'T SEEM
VERY INTERESTED
IN COMMUNICATING WITH US.
IF THEY CAN
COMMUNICATE AT ALL.
Spock: PERHAPS NOT IN A WAY
WE UNDERSTAND.
I KEEP RECEIVING IMPRESSIONS.
ANY IDEAS, DOCTOR?
WELL, I'VE GOT ONE, AND I
DEFINITELY DON'T LIKE IT.
I'D GUESS THEY'RE DOING
EXACTLY WHAT WE WOULD DO.
WHICH IS?
WELL, IF WE CAME UPON
AN ALIEN CREATURE
WE'D NEVER SEEN BEFORE,
THE FIRST THING WE'D DO
IS TO MAKE SURE IT WAS
FREE OF HARMFUL BACTERIA.
THEN WE'D SEE
IF IT WAS INTELLIGENT.
CONGRATULATIONS, DOCTOR.
A MOST LOGICAL ASSUMPTION.
Kirk: A MORE IMPORTANT
QUESTION, GENTLEMEN,
IS WHETHER OR NOT
THERE'S A WAY OUT OF HERE.
A FORCE FIELD.
IT SEEMS HARMLESS ENOUGH.
SO DO THE BARS OF A JAIL,
UNLESS YOU'RE ON THE INSIDE.
AND WE ARE DEFINITELY
ON THE INSIDE.
McCoy: HEY, SOMEBODY!
ANYBODY!
Spock: A WASTEFUL USE
OF ENERGY, DOCTOR.
I BELIEVE THEY CAN HEAR US
WITHOUT YOUR SHOUTING.
YOU SAID
YOU WERE PICKING UP
IMPRESSIONS.
ARE THE ALIENS TELEPATHIC?
I'VE COME TO THE CONCLUSION
THEY ARE, CAPTAIN.
BUT THE SPEED
AT WHICH THE THOUGHTS FLOW
IS TOO GREAT FOR ME
TO COMPREHEND,
EXCEPT FOR THE MOST
FLEETING IMAGE.
SURELY WE CAN COMMUNICATE
WITH THEM SOME WAY.
THEY APPEAR TO BE AS ADVANCED
BEYOND EARTH CIVILIZATION
AS YOU ARE
FROM A COLONY OF ANTS.
THEN WHAT WERE
ALL THOSE OTHER CREATURES
WHERE WE BEAMED DOWN?
Spock: YOU WILL RECALL
WE RECOGNIZED
AT LEAST TWO SPECIES
FROM VASTLY DIFFERENT PLANETS.
THE ENVIRONMENT DID NOT
APPEAR NATURAL TO THIS PLANET.
A TECHNOLOGY THIS ADVANCED
COULD EASILY TRAVEL
TO OTHER STAR SYSTEMS
TO COLLECT SPECIMENS.
McCoy: YOU MEAN IT'S
SOME KIND OF A ZOO?
Spock: EXACTLY.
THEY TOOK OUR PHASERS,
COMMUNICATORS,
AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
SO THEY MUST HAVE SOME IDEA
WE'RE INTELLIGENT.
NOT NECESSARILY, CAPTAIN.
THEY COULD HAVE TAKEN THEM
FOR THE SAME REASON
YOU WOULD TAKE A SHARP OBJECT
AWAY FROM A CHILD.
OR MAYBE THEY WANT TO SEE
HOW OUR TOYS WORK.
THAT, TOO, IS A POSSIBILITY.
WAIT A MINUTE.
YOU, YOU -- HEY!
WE'VE GOT TO COMMUNICATE
WITH THEM.
McCoy:
WELL, SO MUCH FOR MYTHOLOGY.
Spock: I FIND THEM
STRANGELY ATTRACTIVE.
LOOK AHEAD!
BETTER DO WHAT THEY WANT
FOR NOW, ANYWAY.
THEY ACTIVATED
ANOTHER FORCE FIELD.
McCoy:
THIS IS REAL GRASS.
YES, DOCTOR.
THIS AREA HAS BEEN
CAREFULLY PREPARED
FOR HUMAN TYPES.
THE ALIENS ARE SAFE NOW.
McCoy: HOW'S THAT?
THEY ARE SAFE
BECAUSE WE ARE NOW
EXHIBITS IN A ZOO.
A ZOO?
I'M NO ANIMAL.
ON THIS PLANET, BONES,
THEY SEEM TO BE THE PEOPLE
AND WE ARE THE ANIMALS.
HELLO. I'M LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
TOM MARKEL.
THIS IS OUR BIOLOGIST,
RANDI BRYCE.
JAMES KIRK, CAPTAIN
OF THE ENTERPRISE.
FIRST OFFICER SPOCK.
OUR PHYSICIAN, DR. McCOY.
-WE'VE BEEN EXPECTING YOU.
-YOU'VE WHAT?
WE HEARD
YOUR COMMUNICATOR SIGNAL.
THEN WHY DIDN'T YOU WARN US?
WE COULDN'T WARN YOU.
THEY'RE CONSTANTLY PICKING UP
OUR EQUIPMENT
AND FOOLING WITH IT.
WHERE DO THEY KEEP
THE EQUIPMENT?
I COULD USE MY TRICORDER.
NO USE, SIR.
THEY'RE ON AN EXHIBIT TABLE
BEYOND THE FORCE FIELD.
THERE WERE SIX OF YOU
ON THE MISSION.
WE DIDN'T BEAM DOWN IN TIME
TO SAVE THE ORIGINAL THREE.
LIEUTENANT RANDOLPH
IS IN THE HOUSE.
SHE'S RUNNING A HIGH FEVER,
BUT WE CAN'T SEEM
TO DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT.
I'LL CHECK HER OUT.
MAYBE I CAN HELP.
Kirk: WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED
ABOUT THE ALIENS?
THERE'S NOT MUCH, SIR.
THIS IS A ZOO.
SO TREMENDOUS
AS TO BE ALMOST UNBELIEVABLE.
Kirk: HAVE YOU TRIED AN ESCAPE?
A DOZEN DIFFERENT WAYS --
TUNNELS, A WEAKNESS
IN THE FORCE FIELD.
NOTHING WORKED.
HAVE YOU TRIED TO COMMUNICATE?
YES, SIR.
BUT ALL WE'VE BEEN ABLE
TO AROUSE IN THEM IS
A SORT OF QUIVERING MOTION.
Kirk:
WE SEEM TO HAVE COMPANY.
Markel:
THEY BUILT THIS FOR US.
WE'VE CONCLUDED
THEY'RE TELEPATHIC.
I GUESS THEY READ
OUR MINDS
AND CAME AS CLOSE
AS THEY COULD
TO MAKE IT LIKE HOME.
SPOCK, TRY AND MAKE CONTACT.
YES, SIR.
I CAN'T SEEM TO GET THROUGH,
CAPTAIN.
THEY APPEAR TOO INVOLVED
WITH EACH OTHER.
YOU SEEM TO BE
GETTING A RESPONSE.
MY IMPRESSION IS THAT
THEY ARE LAUGHING AT ME.
SO FAR, MR. SPOCK,
WE HAVEN'T FOUND
ANYTHING FUNNY IN THIS.
ANIMALS IN A ZOO RARELY DO.
LET'S FIND THE OTHERS.
I FEEL A NEED FOR
HUMAN COMPANIONSHIP.
Bryce: CAPTAIN KIRK, MR. SPOCK,
THIS IS NANCY RANDOLPH,
OUR NAVIGATOR.
-HOW IS SHE?
-WITHOUT MY INSTRUMENTS,
IT'S DIFFICULT TO MAKE
AN EXACT DIAGNOSIS.
ROUGH GUESS IS
A MALARIAL TYPE INFECTION
CAUSED BY AN INSECT BITE.
I CAN'T DO ANYTHING
WITHOUT MY MEDIKIT.
THE LACTRANS OUTSIDE,
WHAT DO THEY DO?
THEY APPEAR TO BE
GUARDS, SIR,
MAKING SURE
WE DON'T HARM EACH OTHER.
DO THEY FEED US
OR DO WE SHIFT FOR OURSELVES?
THEY BRING SUPPLIES
ONCE A WEEK.
Kirk:
ALWAYS TO THE SAME PLACE?
Bryce: YES, ALWAYS,
NEAR THE DISPLAY CASE.
Kirk: WHAT DISPLAY CASE?
BEHIND THIS HOUSE,
OUTSIDE THE FORCE FIELD.
ALL OUR -- OUR TOYS --
PHASERS, COMMUNICATORS,
MEDICAL SUPPLIES.
THEN MY EQUIPMENT
SHOULD BE THERE.
MAYBE WE CAN GET THEM
TO GIVE THEM BACK TO US.
CAPTAIN, THEY ARE
HIGHLY INTELLIGENT.
I'M SURE THEY ARE QUITE AWARE
OF THE PURPOSE
OF EACH PIECE
OF EQUIPMENT NOW.
THE MEDICAL KIT
WOULDN'T BE HARMFUL.
IT WOULD HELP HER,
ONE OF THEIR SPECIMENS.
THEN THINK ABOUT IT
THAT WAY, DOCTOR.
Markel: FOOD.
BUT IT'S NOT FEEDING TIME.
Kirk: THEY MUST HAVE
SENSED A NEED
AND INTERPRETED IT AS FOOD.
I SUGGEST WE ALL CONCENTRATE
ON THE MEDICAL KIT.
IT'S ALL HERE.
THEY HAVEN'T DAMAGED IT.
WHAT'S YOUR EVALUATION
OF THE SITUATION, MARKEL?
THEY TREAT US
QUITE WELL, SIR.
THEY SEEM TO WANT US
ALIVE AND WELL.
AND THEY DON'T WANT
TO LET US GO.
Spock: A NATURAL REACTION
FOR THE CURATORS OF A ZOO.
SIR, DO YOU THINK THERE IS
ANY CHANCE OF GETTING OUT?
AS LONG AS WE'RE ALIVE,
THERE'S A CHANCE.
TONIGHT I'LL TRY AND FIND
A WEAK LINK
IN THE FORCE FIELD.
BEGGING YOUR PARDON, CAPTAIN,
I THINK WE SHOULD FACE
THE SITUATION REALISTICALLY.
WE ARE SPECIMEN ANIMALS
IN A ZOO.
AND THEY HAVE TAKEN
EVERY PRECAUTION
TO PREVENT OUR ESCAPE.
TO THEM WE ARE CAGED FOR LIFE.
Spock: WE SEEM TO BE
DRAWING QUITE A CROWD.
GENTLEMEN, SINCE THEY ARE
LEARNING FROM US,
WHY DON'T WE LEARN
SOMETHING FROM THEM?
HOW?
WE CAN'T GET THROUGH TO THEM.
THEY COMMUNICATE TELEPATHICALLY.
BETWEEN THEMSELVES, YES,
BUT, MR. SPOCK,
AREN'T VULCANS TELEPATHIC?
TO A DEGREE,
WITH OUR OWN SPECIES
AND WITH SOME OTHERS,
BUT THE LACTRAN INTELLIGENCE
IS EONS BEYOND MINE.
HOW MUCH HAVE YOU LEARNED?
ABOUT AS MUCH AS A MOTHER LEARNS
FROM A SIX-MONTH-OLD INFANT.
WHAT'S THEIR IMPRESSION OF US?
WE SEEM TO FRIGHTEN
THE SMALLER ONES.
SOME -- THE FEMALES,
I BELIEVE --
FIND US QUITE UGLY.
WHAT ABOUT THE ENTERPRISE,
JIM?
SCOTTY COULD GET WORRIED.
HE COULD BEAM DOWN
A FIGHTING FORCE.
MY ORDERS WERE NOT TO ATTEMPT
A RESCUE UNDER ANY CONDITION.
A WISE MOVE, CAPTAIN.
FROM WHAT I CAN GATHER,
EVEN THE ENTERPRISE
IS NO MATCH
FOR THEIR FORCE FIELD.
HOW ABOUT COMING UP
WITH ANOTHER MOVE, THEN?
-IF I MAY SUGGEST, SIR?
-GO AHEAD.
IT IS OBVIOUS THEY CAN
PICK UP SPECIFIC THOUGHT
TRANSMISSIONS FROM US
IF THEY CARE TO GO
TO THE TROUBLE.
I SUGGEST THAT
ONE OF OUR NUMBER
APPEAR TO BE ILL.
THE REST OF US WILL
PUT STRONG THOUGHTS
IN OUR MINDS
THAT A COMMUNICATOR IS NEEDED
FOR RECOVERY.
LET'S TRY IT,
AND LET'S BE CLOSE
TO THE COMMUNICATOR WHEN WE DO.
I'LL PRETEND I'M SICK.
ALL OF YOU CONCENTRATE.
Markel: IT'S A LITTLE ONE.
COULD BE A CHILD.
ONCE I GET MY HANDS
ON A COMMUNICATOR,
I CAN HAVE SCOTTY BEAM US ALL
ABOARD THE ENTERPRISE.
READY, NOW.
THE COMMUNICATOR,
CONCENTRATE
ON THE COMMUNICATOR.
ENTERPRISE!
THIS IS CAPTAIN KIRK!
BEAM US ABOARD!
WHAT IN THE COSMOS...
Spock: I'M RECEIVING
AN IMPRESSION
THEY ARE WORRIED
ABOUT THEIR CHILD, CAPTAIN.
I'M WORRIED ABOUT
THE ENTERPRISE.
THEY SEEM TO THINK
YOU MADE THE CHILD DISAPPEAR.
THEY DID NOT KNOW
WE WERE A DEADLY SPECIES
CAPABLE OF INJURING
ONE OF THEM.
WELL, LET'S NOT STAND HERE.
LET'S DO SOMETHING.
THE BEST THING WE CAN DO IS...
[GROANING]
-WHAT IS IT?
-THEY'RE IN MY HEAD.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE BABY?
WHAT HAPPENED?
CAPTAIN, FIGHT IT.
FIGHT IT AS HARD AS YOU CAN.
THEY THINK TOO FAST
IN TOO COMPLEX A MANNER.
IF HE GIVES UP
FOR EVEN ONE MOMENT,
HE MAY GO MAD.
EVERYONE CLEAR OUT!
WHAT'S GOING ON?
I THINK IT'S HARMLESS,
BUT I'M NOT SURE!
WHAT DO YOU WANT US TO DO?
WHATEVER IT WANTS ME TO.
NOW, SUPPOSING
YOU AND I TALK THIS OVER.
YOU CAN TALK, CAN'T YOU?
YOU CAN'T TALK.
WELL, WHAT CAN YOU DO?
OH, NO!
LISTEN, YOU'LL SEND US OFF
INTO SPACE IF YOU...
JIM, ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
YES.
I THINK SO.
CAPTAIN, THEY HAVE
CONCLUDED THEY CANNOT
BREAK THROUGH YOUR MIND
ON A ONE-TO-ONE BASIS.
THEY ARE NOW GATHERING
THE MENTAL STRENGTH
OF ALL FIVE OF THEM
TO BREAK THROUGH.
I CAN'T HOLD OUT
AGAINST THAT MANY.
EVERYBODY,
CONCENTRATE ON CAPTAIN KIRK.
FORM A THOUGHT SCREEN.
Kirk: NO. NO!
LET ME ALONE! PLEASE.
THEY'RE DESTROYING ME!
TEARING MY MIND TO...
TO...
I'M ALL...
I'M ALL RIGHT.
SCOTTY.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
MY YOUNG FRIEND BROUGHT ME.
YOU MADE CONTACT?
IT MADE CONTACT WITH ME.
WHAT DID YOU LEARN?
IT'S ONLY SIX YEARS OLD
BUT IT HAS AN I.Q.
IN THE THOUSANDS.
IT PICKED MY BRAIN,
ALL THE KNOWLEDGE
IN THE ENTERPRISE COMPUTERS,
AND SENT US FLYING OFF
OUT OF ORBIT.
THEN HOW DID YOU GET HERE?
I CONVINCED IT
I WASN'T A PET
AND THAT IT SHOULD BRING
THE SHIP BACK INTO ORBIT.
THEN I GOT IT INTO
THE TRANSPORTER
TO RETURN HERE.
THEY ARE TRYING TO
CONTACT US DIRECTLY.
I CAN MAKE OUT SOMETHING.
IT'S -- IT'S DIFFICULT.
THEY THINK SO FAST.
BUT...
THE CHILD HAS LEARNED
AND TOLD ITS PARENTS
ALL ABOUT THE FEDERATION
AND THE RACES IT ENCOMPASSES.
THAT FAST?
WHAT ELSE DO THEY KNOW
ABOUT US?
WE ARE CONSIDERED SIMPLISTIC,
BUT IN THE PROCESS OF EVOLVING
INTO A HIGHER ORDER.
EVEN VULCANS?
YES. EVEN VULCANS.
BUT THE LITTLE ONE DIDN'T TELL
OR THINK THAT TO ME.
BACKWARD CHILD, BUT GROWING.
EXACTLY, SIR.
IT SEEMS THEY WERE
WHERE WE ARE
SOME TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF CENTURIES AGO.
THEIR CENTURIES, NOT OURS.
DO WE GET OUT OF HERE?
IT APPEARS SO.
THEY DO NOT FEEL
WE BELONG IN THEIR ZOO.
Kirk: EVERYONE READY
TO TRANSPORT?
SO LONG, LAD.
NICE MEETING YOU.
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
PREPARE TO BEAM ABOARD
TWO PARTIES, ALL HUMAN.
CAPTAIN, WE ARE
A SCIENTIFIC CONTACT TEAM,
AND WE LEARNED
PRACTICALLY NOTHING.
OFFHAND, I'D SAY
WE LEARNED TO KEEP
OUR HANDS OFF.
BUT THERE WAS SO MUCH MORE.
THERE WILL BE
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES,
MR. MARKEL.
I HAVE JUST RECEIVED
THEIR FINAL TELEPATHIC
MESSAGE.
WHICH IS?
WE'LL BE WELCOME BACK,
IN 20 OR 30 CENTURIES.
OUR TIME OR THEIRS?
THEIRS.
AND IT WILL TAKE ME
SOME TIME TO FIGURE OUT
HOW LONG THAT IS.
Kirk: EITHER WAY, MR. SPOCK,
IT WILL HARDLY BE OUR PROBLEM.